General Theme: 

We had plan to write a program that visualizes changes in the frequency of words over various parameters such as time, gender, or political party. 




Datasets: 

Each row of our datasets has two categorical variables, each with two possible outcomes.

Link to datasets that we plan to visualize: 
1.	An assortment of books written by both Male and Female authors and published in both the 18th and 19th century from Project Gutenberg. 
2.	2016 US Presidential Primary Debates from Kaggle to compare words used by gender and political party. 
3.	Supreme Court of the United States Opinions from Kaggle to compare words used in a concurring or dissenting opinion and by the political party of the President that nominated said justice. 




Row of Books from Gutenberg’s website:

Author Gender (Male/Female)	Date of Publishing  (18th Century/19th Century)

Row of the Supreme Court of the United States Dataset:

Type of Opinion (Concurring/Dissenting)	Party of the President who appointed the Justice
(Democratic/Republican)	

Row for 2016 Primary Presidential Debates: 

Candidate Gender (Male/Female)	Party of Candidate
(Democratic/Republican)	




A high-level overview of the algorithm or algorithms:

1. Modifying the data so that it looks like:

Type (Concurring/Dissenting)	Party of the President who appointed the Justice
(Democratic/Republican)
    
2.  Find the frequencies of the most popular words
3.  Tally the frequencies and words  (exclude common words like “the” “and” “I” “a” “it” to get rid of irrelevant data.)
4. Plot the tallies with different sizes of circles.




Various Outcomes: 

The reach outcome is to make a procedure that has two parameters - a .csv file and two criterions for comparison. This procedure will work if the .csv file satisfies certain preconditions and it will produce a plot similar to this: 
  
The preferred outcome is to produce two to three visualizations for our own datasets - Presidential Debates, SCOTUS opinions, and Novels. 

The satisficing outcome is to produce one visualization for either of the three datasets mentioned above. 

